# CS 225 Final Project Goals

For our final project, we have selected a dataset from the [Stanford Large Network Dataset Collection](http://snap.stanford.edu/data/#road). We have decided to work with the [Bitcoin OTC Trusted Weighted Signed Network](http://snap.stanford.edu/data/soc-sign-bitcoin-otc.html).

This dataset details a network of traders using Bitcoin OTC and who trusts whom. Sources are rated by targets on a scale from -10 (total distrust) to 10 (total trust). We have cleaned up the data set using Pandas on Jupyter Notebooks, and normalized the ranking system 0-10 to simplify the process. Our scraped data can be seen in the [assets](https://github-dev.cs.illinois.edu/cs225-fa20/chiragg4-anityak2-aditk3-alivabp2/tree/master/assets/datasets) directory.

We plan to use the PageRank algorithm to find the most distrusted traders as well as the most trusted traders. Additionally, we hope to implement the betweenness centrality algorithm in order to find the member through which most transactions pass through. If we are unable to implement betweenness centrality, we will implement the Dijkstra's Algorithm in order to find the shortest path. Using that shortest path, we can actually find and examine the direct transactions between specific traders. As for our traversal, we will implement a BFS traversal via which we can find a vertex of a given user and calculate the average rating given to him based on the degree of nodes and the ratings from the weighted edges.

The big picture angle that we are taking for this project is the implications and applications in the realm of cybersecurity in the real world. Finding out the details of such transactions could provide a further insight into investigating some of the more illegal business agreements done via Bitcoin and on the dark web.
